# 107-final

Signal Detection Theory and Delta Plot Analysis by Jeslyn Bui

In this assignment I have implemented Signal Detection Theory (SDT) and Delta Plots to analyze our response time data. Specifically, I have represented through SDT analysis how stimulus type (simple vs complex), trial difficulty (easy vs hard), and signal presence resulted in participants’ ability to notice a signal or noise (discrimination, d prime) and their typical response bias (criterion). Both on a group level and individual level. Furthermore through the delta plot I have shown the relationship between speed and accuracy also depending on the stimulus type and trial difficulty. 

Going into detail about the code of my sdt_ddm.py file it has five main functions within it using the provided code from our class repo as a base with additions as necessary to meet requirements of the assignment. Starting off the mapping, condition names, and percentiles to follow along with our simulated data are still the same. Following that the first function reads the data csv file, then the second function applies the hierarchical SDT model accounting for group level and individual level estimation. The third function creates the necessary delta plots for each participant with plots that show the overall response time differences in the top right corner and the response time differences separated by correct and wrong (error) responses in the bottom left corner. Next the fourth function analyzes the results summarizing the convergence, posterior distribution plots, condition specific estimations, person specific estimations, and derived comparisons either saving them as plots or csv files. Whereas the last function is the main execution function utilizing the previous functions as necessary and drawing samples from the model. Throughout my code implementation I also decided to include the interaction of stimulus type and trial difficulty although I was not sure if it was necessary. 

*I have used Gemini to assist with creating my python code for sdt_ddm.py in order to meet assignment requirements.*
